---
author: "Adam Presley"
date: 2007-09-09T08:29:00Z
tags: ["general"]
title: "Catch-up"
slug: "catch-up"
---

Been a while since I last posted, so I'll use this time to just play a
little catch-up. Over the last couple of weeks work has been the most
occupying event.

Last Saturday Maryanne, Tabitha, and I went to our friend and coworker
Katie's house. We arrived just before everyone else and got the grand
tour of Katie's beautiful house, as well as an idea of just how crazy
she is in regard to the Toy Story alien collection obsession.

We had a great time with the fun and games. I brought Guitar Hero I and
II with me for additional entertainment. Katie also had Karaoke
Revolution. At first most wouldn't play... in fact I didn't know they
were going to till I came upstairs and I was handed a microphone in the
middle of a song and told "Sing!". Ok, so I did. After that, just about
everyone gave it a go. Now, you might think that this would not be fun,
but interestingly enough it is quite addicting; addicting enough for me
to go out and buy one myself the next day! After the games we went on to
the main attraction: Rocky Horror Picture Show. With Katie doing the
audience prompts, everyone singing the songs, and Tim and I doing the
Time Warp, it turned out to be a great success.

Sunday we took my girls out to lunch at Applebee's. It was interesting
because I told Aaliyah that she couldn't have fries with her chicken
strips, and that she should try apple sauce as it is a little better for
you. She actually started crying. "I don't WANT applesauce". But, in the
end, I am the parent, and won that argument. And guess what? She likes
the applesauce. :)

We then took them school supply shopping. Taylor is starting the 2nd
grade and needs a horde of supplies. Poor Aaliyah wanted to buy supplies
too, but since Shannon wasn't sure if she'd get into pre-K this year we
decided to hold off on that. So now Taylor is all school supplied up,
including a much non-needed girly backpack and lunch box.

In other news I watched a couple of movies these last two weeks. Went to
the theater and saw **Transformers**. One word to describe it all:
**Awesome!** That has to be the most fun I've had a movie in a long
while. Funny, action packed, with plenty of throwbacks to the original
cartoons. Rock and roll!

Also saw **300** finally. I have to say that I did like it. Very
stylistic in the artistry, especially in the computer enhanced scenery.
They spent a bit too much time trying to introduce you to, or explain as
the case may be, the Spartan mentality of culture, strength, and
weakness. But overall, a pretty good action flick.

To top it all off Maryanne and I have started on the Weight Watchers
program last week. Today actually makes my first week, and I weigh in
tonight to see if there is any progress. The meeting is also tonight. I
find the meetings to be very "RA RA!", but they offer good support and
accountability, which I certainly need seeing that I have not NEARLY
enough self control when it comes to food. So I remain hopeful and
fairly confident that I can do this, especially with Maryanne at my
side. :)
