---
layout: post
title: Weddings
date: 2006-10-31 13:32:00
author: Adam Presley
status: Published
tags: general
slug: weddings
---

This last weekend found me involved in my friend and coworker April's
wedding. Weddings, for me at least, are in the category of
"interesting". Is this affected and altered by my personal life
experiences? Of course it is!

So I went Friday night to the dress rehersal out in Denton. WAY out in
Denton. <_< Why would **I** be there? I was to be the videographer.
We met up at the Little Church in the Woods. Firstly I will say that
although the chapel was small, it was quite beautiful. The rehersal was
quick and to the point, as the minister wasted no time in "running" them
through what they would be doing. All the while I am setting up tripods
and cameras.

After the rehersal we set out to Texas Roadhouse for some steaks. Turns
out there was about a 45 minute wait, so a few of us hit the bar for a
few... or more... drinks. The BBQ chicken and ribs were spot on good,
and the fact that I had an endless bucket of peanuts that I could throw
the shells to the floor made it all good and fun!

Saturday came; the day of the wedding. A good turnout, and everybody
looking sharp. The bride, April, looked beautiful. I must say she looks
very happy, and I hope she is. I, being quite jaded, now feel so strange
at weddings. Floods of memories, no matter how hard I try to keep em
out. I did however busy myself at the reception with all the filming.

Now I just have to go over the tape and see how it all turned out.
Congratz April! I hope you have all the happiness hun. :)
