---
layout: post
title: Busy much?
date: 2006-10-09 03:23:00
author: Adam Presley
status: Published
tags: general
slug: busy-much
---

This last weekend was one of my last free weekends for the next three
weeks. It didn't turn out too bad.  
  
So Tabby, Courtney, Matt, and I went off to see The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre: Beginnings Friday night. Allow me to interject that my
expectations were quite low. I was fairly certain that this was going to
be boring, and completely un-fun. Fortunatly for me, and those involved,
I was wrong. The movie was highly predictable, and no, not in the sense
that I know the plot already, but in that it was easily guessed as to
what cheap thrill was going to happen next. Despite this fact it was
good horror-flickin fun with enough blood, gore, bone-crackin,
chain-sawin action to keep me entertained.  
Saturday night kept me and a few friends up late with plenty of alcohol,
chocolate and gummy bear/sprinkles bras, video games, and of course
cheesy movies. Sleepiness didn't hit me till around 4:30am. And yet
somehow, I still managed to get up at 10:00am. I'm tellin ya, it's my
magic hour. Wink  
  
So, going back to my original statement, my next three weekends are
booked. This is a little unusual for me, but... hey. This coming
weekend, my oldest daughter is having a birthday party. She's turning
seven! Simply unbelievable. I'm getting old... :o Then the following
weekend I am going on a family outing kinda thing. Since my family has
around six or seven birthdays between the months of August and December,
we decided we'd have like one big get-together. Finally the weekend
after that is my friend April's wedding, at which I am filming. Outta be
cool. :) Now I just have to get a digital cable so I can capture the
video to my laptop.  
  
In the coding side of the universe I've been doing a bit of
experimentation with TCP client/server development in .NET. This is
coming along pretty well. Yes, I do have a reason to be doing so. One of
the products I wrote and we use here at my work I am considering turning
it into a client/server based application, making a clear seperation
between the user UI and the server side functionality. The biggest
problem I'm running into at this time is calling a callback delegate
that resides on the client from the server. I seem to have the
permission part of the issue resolved, but now it is having issues
resolving the type from the assembly, or something to that effect.
Anyway, I'll figure it out.  
  
And finally... *drum roll please*... My laptop is supposed to arrive
today!! YES!!!
