---
layout: post
title: OpenCF Summit 2012
date: 2012-03-06 09:29:00
author: Adam Presley
status: Published
tags: development coldfusion conference
slug: opencf-summit-2012
---
I had the pleasure of attending the OpenCF Summit this year
(<http://opencfsummit.org/>) in Garland, TX. Luckily I live down the
road a piece in Allen, TX so it wasn't a far trek for me. Summarizing
the experience into a word for me would be "worthwhile", but perhaps I
am jumping ahead.  
  
One of the coolest parts about this conference was getting to meet a lot
of the cool people I have interacted with on various social media
outlets. It is always good to put a face to the tweets and personality.
I also consider it energizing to feed off the air of enthusiasm of other
people who are passionate about the CFML language, and there certainly
was plenty of that to go around!  
  
Presentations of note (to me at least) were some of the really cool
things Railo and team are doing. Gert peeled back the covers a bit to
show off some of the more useful/cooler features of Railo, including the
highly useful abilities of specifying session storage. Highly
versatile!  
  
Allan Williamson presented on CFML and OpenBD and the challenges of huge
scale. Some of the techniques he presented on were downright
inspirational. The topic covered everything from high visibility,
centralized logging, fire-and-forget cloud instances, and even general
techniques for preparing your CFML code for high scale. I have to admit
that when he spoke on how his organization doesn't even bother to turn
on SSH access to their cloud instances because they can shutdown and
spin up new ones so easily, my mind pretty much blew out of the back of
my skull.  
  
Other presentations I enjoyed included a lightning talk on the life and
death of stars and star systems by Christian Ready. Daria Norris talked
about the very cool things they are doing with CFML at the Free Library
of Philadelphia. Google Maps laid over old town maps was pretty cool.  
  
I also participated in the Hackfest. I admit I was a bit nervous as I've
never really contributed to an ongoing open-source project that I didn't
just make myself and upload somewhere. There were several challenges for
me personally, as I am brand new to Git, never used the Mach-II
framework (in any serious capacity), and generally groan when I have to
use ColdSpring. Don't get me wrong, all good products, but not generally
my cup of tea. Just the same the experience was rewarding and I was
happy to contribute. I always enjoy learning a few new things when I
can.  
  
Overall OpenCF Summit felt like a success to me, and I look forward to
attending next year.
